Clean up `Beatmap editor/Compose` (#9826)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Compose/en.md

| `Lock Notes` (`L`) | `Left click`: toggle. | Lock all hit objects to their current positions and timestamps. |

### Song timeline

![](img/song-timeline.jpg "Song timeline")

The timestamp in the bottom left corner has the `<minutes>:<seconds>:<milliseconds>` format and shows the current position within the song. If clicked, it opens a small pop-up window for copying or pasting [objects' timestamps](/wiki/Modding/Timestamp) for quick selection and navigation. Next to the timestamp is the song progress percentage, which may be replaced with `intro` or `outro` if the storyboard starts before or ends after the music.

The central area contains the timeline with markings and music control buttons. The `Test` button to the right of the timeline will suggest saving the beatmap and start playtesting it from the current timestamp. If hovered, the timeline will display buttons for working with bookmarks.

On the bottom-right, the playback rate can be adjusted by the value of a quarter.

> #### Colour markers

Reviewer: after another look at the timeline screenshot I think it's enough for the article's purpose

| `Select` (`1`) | `Left click` or `Left drag`: Move timestamp and location of the note. `Right click`: Remove the note. `Ctrl` + `Left click`: Select multiple objects. | Select and modify existing notes. |
| `Circle` (`2`) | `Left click`: Place a note. | Add a note to the current column based on mouse position. |
| `Hold` (`3`) | Hold `Left click`: Place a hold note and adjust its length. Release the click to end the note. | Add a hold note to the current column based on mouse position. |

### Playfield

![](img/playfield-mania.jpg "Visual representation of the current timestamp")

#### Playfield boxes

| Name | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| Left Box | Note density (Timeline) |
| Centre | Actual playfield overlaid with [beat snap divisor](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Beat_snap_divisor) |

#### Lines and note colours

| Line colour | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| Double white | Full measure |
| White | Common time |
| Green | Current timestamp / [Judgement](/wiki/Gameplay/Judgement) line |

| Note colour | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| Blue | Selected note(s) |
| White/Pink/Yellow | Unselected note colours |

### Sampling

> **Sampling** is the process of adding sound to the note. To add a sample, click a note while holding `Alt` to open a pop-up window with a list of sound samples inside the beatmap folder.

Reviewer: oddly enough, what you're describing is keysounding, and this section covers sampling -- [I asked an o!m NAT
](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/assets/4686101/fe7fa5cc-b1cb-4c90-b648-ba79a5b6781c)

#### Sample import

![](img/sample-import.jpg "Sample import window")

The left side of the sample import window lists all audio samples from the beatmap folder. They can be applied to selected objects using settings on right side of the window.

##### Basic

| Name | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| `CustomSet` | Apply default hitsound set and volume without using these of the current timing point. Ignores the left-side sample selection. *Note: For this action to work properly, `Use basic sample` must be enabled.* |

> | `Volume` | How loud this sound file should be. Use only integer values from 8 to 100. |

Reviewer: idk it's just the lower cap for a keysound sample volume, like 5 is for offset volumes

> | `Volume` | How loud this sound file should be. Use only integer values from 8 to 100. |

Reviewer 2: what in tarnation is an "offset volume"

> | `Volume` | How loud this sound file should be. Use only integer values from 8 to 100. |

Reviewer: I meant timing points, naturally -- you can customize hitsound volume level on a per-point basis

| `Use basic sample` | **Ignores** selected custom hitsound in this editor, and applies only the volume on selected notes. This means, no matter what the notes are about, this feature only changes the selected notes volume. |

##### Buttons

| Name | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| `Play` | Play selected sample. |
| `Import` | Add more samples to the beatmap folder from other locations. |
| `Delete` | Delete the selected sample's file, **irreversibly**. |
| `Apply` | Apply selected sample to the selected note. |

> | `Sample` | Add selected sample as a storyboard event at the current timestamp. |

Reviewer 2: til this was the way you were supposed to add storyboard samples

```suggestion
| `Sample` | Add selected sample as a [storyboard audio event](/wiki/Storyboard/Scripting/Audio) at the current timestamp. |
```

Reviewer: it's one of the ways — the old good "write it in .osb" existed well before osu!mania has been introduced

| `Sample list` | Display [sound events in the storyboard](#sample-events-list). |
| `Reset` | Remove custom sample from the selected note. |
| `Cancel` | Close the window. |

#### Sample events list

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

*See also: [Storyboard audio samples](/wiki/Storyboard/Scripting/Audio)*

```

![](img/sample-event-list.jpg "Sample events list window")

> `Sample events list` is a window that shows sound events from the storyboard, which are stored in the difficulty's `.osu` file. The format of every line is `<minutes>:<seconds>:<milliseconds> <filename>@<volume>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Sample events list` is a window that shows sound events from the storyboard, which are stored in the difficulty's `.osu` or the beatmap's `.osb` file.
```

### Song timeline

![](img/song-timeline.jpg "Song timeline")

On the bottom-left, it shows the timestamp in milliseconds and the song duration in percent. The percentage may be switched to "intro" or "outro" if there is storyboarding before or after the music.

On the bottom-centre, it shows the timeline with markings and the compulsory music player buttons. The `Test` button to the right of the timeline will save the beatmap and then allows for playtesting it, starting at the current timestamp.

On the bottom-right, the playback rate can be adjusted by the value of a quarter.

#### Colour markers

| Colour | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| White | Current timestamp |
| Yellow | Preview point |
| Green | [Inherited timing point](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timing#inherited-timing-point) |
| Red | [Uninherited timing point](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timing#uninherited-timing-point) |
| Blue | Bookmark |

#### Colour sections

| Colour | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| Grey | [Break](/wiki/Beatmap/Break) |
| Orange | [Kiai time](/wiki/Gameplay/Kiai_time) |

#### Bookmark actions

| Shortcut | Description |
| :-- | :-- |

> | `Ctrl` + `B` | Add a bookmark at current location. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Ctrl` + `B` | Add a bookmark at the current location. |
```

| `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `B` | Remove the bookmark at nearby location. |

> | `Ctrl` + `Right arrow` | Move the current timestamp to the next bookmark. |
> | `Ctrl` + `Left arrow` | Move the current timestamp to the previous bookmark. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Ctrl` + `Right arrow` | Go to the next bookmark. |
| `Ctrl` + `Left arrow` | Go to the previous bookmark. |
```

## Features (osu!mania)

*See also: [Basics of the osu!mania mapping](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/118868), [osu!mania keysounding](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/139139)*

These are the features of osu!mania, in addition to the previous ones.

### Beat snap divisor

![](img/beat-snap-divisor-mania.jpg "Beat snap divisor in osu!mania")

*Main article: [Beat snap divisor](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Beat_snap_divisor)*

> **Time signature** (MM:B) from the timing section is added (15:3 = 15th measure 3rd beat) beside the adjustment bar for easier mapper's reference. It can go to negative value (e.g. -8:-3) if the first timing section is a *few seconds away* from the start of the beatmap's song file.

Reviewer: this line needs to be removed, since time signature position is a part of the upper timeline, not the beat snap divisor

> Beside the `Insert Break Time` button is the **sound file name storyboarded to the selected note**, known as **keysound**. *Refer to the [Sampling](#sampling) section*

Reviewer: the samples displayed there are not storyboarded, but instead written directly in hit objects' parameters in `.osu`:

```
109,192,36051,128,0,36182:0:0:0:70:_ende_A.ogg
```

```suggestion
In osu!mania mode, the beat snap divisor area also shows the name and volume level of the sound sample attached to a selected note. Such per-note samples called keysounds are applied using the [`Sample import`](#sample-import) dialog.
```

> ### Notes selector for osu!mania

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hit object panel for osu!mania
```

> ![](img/tools-mania.jpg "Notes selector for osu!mania")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![](img/tools-mania.jpg "Hit object panel for osu!mania")
```

| Buttons (Keyboard shortcut) | Usage | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `Sampleset` | Auto, Normal, Soft, Drum | Change the sampleset ignoring the current one on timing section. |

> | `Additions` | Auto, Normal, Soft, Drum | Same as above, but overrides the `Sampleset` setting. |

Reviewer: this needs to mirror the same rows from the description of the regular editor mode

> | `Select` (`1`) | `Left click`**/drag**: Move timestamp and location of a note. `Right click`: Remove note. `Ctrl` **+** `Left click`: Multiple selection. | Select and modify existing notes. |
> | `Circle` (`2`) | `Left click`: Place note. | Add note to current column based on mouse position. |
> | `Hold` (`3`) | **Hold** `Left click`: Place hold note and adjust length. **Release on end**: Set hold end. | Add hold note to current column based on mouse position. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Select` (`1`) | `Left click` or `Left drag`: Move timestamp and location of the note. `Right click`: Remove the note. `Ctrl` + `Left click`: Select multiple objects. | Select and modify existing notes. |
| `Circle` (`2`) | `Left click`: Place a note. | Add a note to the current column based on mouse position. |
| `Hold` (`3`) | Hold `Left click`: Place a hold note and adjust its length. Release the click to end the note. | Add a hold note to the current column based on mouse position. |
```

### Playfield

![](img/playfield-mania.jpg "Visual representation of the current timestamp")

#### Playfield boxes

| Name | Description |
| :-- | :-- |

> | Left Box | Notes intensity (Timeline) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Left Box | Note density (Timeline) |
```

> | Centre | Actual playfield ([Beat snap divisor](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Beat_snap_divisor)) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Centre | Actual playfield overlaid with [beat snap divisor](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Beat_snap_divisor) |
```

> #### Lines and notes colours

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Lines and note colours
```

| Line colour | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| Double white | Full measure |

> | White | Common time |

Reviewer: this feels off -- what is "common time", even? I think that instead of the whole table it would be better to make a brief reference to the beat snap divisor article, explaining where the line colour come from, and mention the judgement line as below.

| Green | Current timestamp / [Judgement](/wiki/Gameplay/Judgement) line |

| Note colour | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| Blue | Selected note(s) |
| White/Pink/Yellow | Unselected note colours |

### Sampling

> **Sampling** is the process of adding sound to the note. To begin, select the note and `Alt` **+** `Left click` on the selected note and a pop-up window will be shown with sound samples inside the beatmap folder.

Reviewer: also, is it really called sampling? always though it's keysounding, requesting osu!mania mappers' support here
```suggestion
**Sampling** is the process of adding sound to the note. To add a sample, click a note while holding `Alt` to open a pop-up window with a list of sound samples inside the beatmap folder.
```

#### Sample import

![](img/sample-import.jpg "Sample import window")

**Left-section** is the list of sound files there are in the beatmap's folder.

> **Right-section** are settings for the selected sound file.

Reviewer: this needs to be slightly rewritten in a similar manner as previously done, for example:

```md
The left side of the sample import window lists all audio samples from the beatmap folder. They can be applied to selected objects using settings on right side of the window.
```

##### Basic

| Name | Description |
| :-- | :-- |

> | `CustomSet` | **Ignores** selected custom hitsound in this editor, and applies the **default** hitsound set and volume without using timing point. *Notice: `Use basic sample` must be enabled in order to use this to be able to work as it's intended.* |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `CustomSet` | Apply default hitsound set and volume without using these of the current timing point. Ignores the left-side sample selection. *Note: For this action to work properly, `Use basic sample` must be enabled.* |
```

| `Volume` | How loud this sound file should be. Use only integer values from 8 to 100. |

> | `Use basic sample` | **Ignores** selected custom hitsound in this editor, and applies only the volume on selected notes. This means, no matter what the notes are about, this feature only changes the selected notes volume. |

Reviewer: should roughly follow the rewrite I suggested for `CustomSet`

Reviewer: I think so -- I tried and IMO the effect is the same as applying sampleset/addition overrides from the left panel, but with the benefit of customizable volume

##### Buttons

| Name | Description |
| :-- | :-- |

> | `Play` | Plays the selected sound file. |
> | `Import` | Imports the custom sound file from a subfolder inside the beatmap's folder. |
> | `Delete` | Deletes the custom sound file. |
> | `Apply` | Applies this selected custom sound file to this note. |
> | `Sample` | Puts this selected custom sound file to the storyboard with respect to current timestamp. |
> | `Sample list` | Storyboarded sound files. *Refer to [Sample event list](#sample-event-list) below* |
> | `Reset` | Removes the sound file associated with the note. |
> | `Cancel` | Closes the window. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Play` | Play selected sample. |
| `Import` | Add more samples to the beatmap folder from other locations. |
| `Delete` | Delete selected sample. |
| `Apply` | Apply selected sample to the selected note. |
| `Sample` | Add selected sample as a storyboard event at the current timestamp. |
| `Sample list` | Display [sound events in the storyboard](#sample-events-list). |
| `Reset` | Remove custom sample from the selected note. |
| `Cancel` | Close the window. |
```

> #### Sample event list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Sample events list
```

> ![](img/sample-event-list.jpg "Sample event list window")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![](img/sample-event-list.jpg "Sample events list window")
```

> Clicking on `Sample list` will summon another window named `Sample event list`. The storyboard elements listed there will be stored in the `.osu` file of the selected difficulty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Sample events list` is a window that shows sound events from the storyboard, which are stored in the difficulty's `.osu` file. The format of every line is `<minutes>:<seconds>:<milliseconds> <filename>@<volume>`.
```

> The coding is `MM:SS:XXX {Sound_file}@{Volume}`, where `MM:SS:XXX` is `Minutes:Seconds:Milliseconds` respectively. **Example**: `1:57:745 kick.wav@100%` means that at 1min 57s 745ms, the `kick.wav` will trigger at 100% volume regardless of the conditions.

Reviewer: considering the previous suggestion, this line can be removed

::: Infobox
![](img/compose.jpg "Compose editor for osu!")
:::

::: Infobox
![](img/compose-mania.jpg "Compose editor for osu!mania")
:::

**Compose** is the place where a [mapper](/wiki/Beatmapping) spends most of the time mapping out the design with respect to the timeline after setting the BPM and timing sections. This is also the place where players can practice a ranked difficulty and inspect its design.

Due to different needs in mapping style (osu! is very flexible, allowing much room for creativity while osu!mania is restrained to a selected key, demanding extreme precision to evoke the keysounds harmonically), osu!'s editor and osu!mania's editor are given their own features section. osu!mania's editor can be easily accessed by setting the difficulty to osu!mania.

## Features

*For a beginner's guide, see: [Beatmapping](/wiki/Beatmapping)*

### Hit object timeline

![](img/objects-timeline.jpg "Timeline for hit objects with respect to the beat snap divisor and timestamp")

| Name | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| `+`/`-` buttons | Increases/Decreases timeline zoom. |
| Double white vertical lines | Current timestamp with respect to the hit objects timeline. |

> | Click on hit object | `Left click`: Select/Move hit object against timeline. `Right click`: Remove hit object. |

Author: I wrote this

```The `+`/`-` buttons facilitate the zooming in and out of the timeline, while the two white lines indicate the current timestamp. Additionally, the mapper has the ability to interact with objects by using `Left click` to select and move them, and `Right click` to remove them.```

> | Click on hit object | `Left click`: Select/Move hit object against timeline. `Right click`: Remove hit object. |

Reviewer: sounds good

### Beat snap divisor

![](img/beat-snap-divisor.jpg "Beat snap divisor")

| Name | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| [Beat Snap Divisor](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Beat_snap_divisor) | Limits where hit objects can be placed so that they always fall on the beat. Moving the slider to the right increases the granularity of the hit objects. |
| `Insert Break Time` | This button will start/stop [break](/wiki/Beatmap/Break) time in current timestamp. |
| x/y | The current mouse coordinate. |

Hold `Alt` to trigger **Distance Spacing**. The value can range from 0.1x to 6.0x.

> ### Selector

Author: I also forget to change the section name when I changed the text under the photo

> ### Selector

Reviewer: no, what I meant was that it's not quite a selector, as it allows you to place hit objects, too, so "selector" doesn't really fit here

![](img/tools.jpg "Hit objects selector")

> | Buttons (Keyboard shortcut) | Usage | Description |

Reviewer: additionally, I think that the usage and description can be safely combined in this table and a few down below, as they cover roughly the same things
```suggestion
| Button (Keyboard shortcut) | Usage | Description |
```

| :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | `Sampleset` | Auto, Normal, Soft, Drum | This ignores the timing section's sampleset setting, and adds the selected one. |

Reviewer: I feel that leaving the usage column blank here is a better choice, as these aren't exactly actions
```suggestion
| `Sampleset` | | Override the [sampleset](/wiki/Beatmapping/Sampleset) of selected objects (including their hitnormals). Choosing `Auto` resets the sampleset to that of an active [timing point](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timing#timing-points). |
```

> | `Additions` | Auto, Normal, Soft, Drum | Additions hitsound means add Clap, Finish, and Whistle with the selected set. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Additions` | | Override the sampleset of selected objects, affecting only their additional hitsounds (whistle, finish, and clap). Choosing `Auto` resets the sampleset to that of an active timing point. |
```

| `Select` (`1`) | `Left click`**/drag**: Select/Adjust the objects/sliderpoints location. `Right click`: Remove objects/sliderpoints. `Ctrl` + `Click`: Multiple selection. | Select and modify existing hit objects. |

> | `Circle` (`2`) | `Left click`: Add object. | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Circle` (`2`) | `Left click`: Add a [hit circle](/wiki/Gameplay/Hit_object/Hit_circle). | |
```

| `Slider` (`3`) | `Left/Right click`: Start/End slider. Add/Remove sliderpoints. **Double** `Left click`: New curve section. | |

> | `Spinner` (`4`) | `Left/Right click`: Start/End spinner at current timestamp. | |

Reviewer: imo these require a more detailed explanation of how to place sliders/spinners, but I'm too lazy to whip it up

### Playfield

![](img/playfield.jpg "Visual representation of the current timestamp")

> Difficulties are mapped here and during gameplay, they will appear exactly like displayed in the editor. For fine-grained mapping, the `.osu` file can be directly edited using a text editor like Notepad.
> 

Reviewer: I think it works best as a sentence unrelated to the playfield section, maybe somewhere at the top of the article, with a link to the `.osu` file format article
```suggestion
```

### Subtools

![](img/subtools.jpg "List of available subtools")

| Button (Keyboard shortcut) | Usage | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | `New Combo` (`Q`) | `Right click`: Change current object to next combo colour. | Hit object combo. This is equivalent to a verse in song script. An acceptable range is about 5–20. |

Reviewer: the right click action only works when you are in object placement mode; if a regular object is right-clicked, it's removed

Reviewer: (also, this merits a link to `/wiki/Beatmapping/Combo`)

Author: Changed to this:

![image](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/assets/58957468/ce8eb052-4c7d-4eb0-a63f-59044fa7bfbb)

#### Hitsounds

| Button (Keyboard shortcut) | Usage | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `Whistle` (`W`) | **(Select a hit object)** `Left click`: Use whistle sound on this object. | Add a whistle sound addition to the selection. |
| `Finish` (`E`) | **(Select a hit object)** `Left click`: Use finish sound on this object. | Add a finish (cymbal) sound addition to the selection. |
| `Clap` (`R`) | **(Select a hit object)** `Left click`: Use clap sound on this object. | Add a clap sound addition to the selection. |

#### Assist tools

| Button (Keyboard shortcut) | Usage | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | `Grid Snap` (`T`) | **Hold** `Shift`: Temporary toggle. **Hold** `Ctrl`: Temporarily disable angle snapping. | Hit objects will be snapped to the grid by default. |

Reviewer: looks like the `Ctrl` piece refers to functionality where you could draw sliders tilted by multiples of 45° by holding `Ctrl`. it's either removed from the editor, or I forgot how to actually trigger it -- if it's the former, please remove this part

> | `Distance Snap` (`Y`) | **Hold** `Alt`: Temporary toggle. Switch Beat Snap Divisor to Distance Snap. `Alt` **+** `Mousewheel`: Adjust Distance Snap multiplier. | Distance between consecutive objects will be snapped based on their rhythmical difference. Best to use while the timeline is paused. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Distance Snap` (`Y`) | **Hold** `Alt`: Temporary toggle, switching the beat snap divisor tool to distance snap. `Alt` **+** `Mousewheel`: Adjust the distance snap multiplier. | Distance between consecutive objects will be calculated based on their temporal distance. Best to use while the timeline is paused. |
```

> | `Lock Notes` (`L`) | **(Select a hit object)** `Left click`: Lock this object. | Lock selected object to current position and timestamp. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Lock Notes` (`L`) | `Left click`: toggle. | Lock all hit objects to their current positions and timestamps. |
```

> ### Song's timeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Song timeline
```

> ![](img/song-timeline.jpg "Song's timeline")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![](img/song-timeline.jpg "Song timeline")
```

On the **bottom-left**, it shows the **timestamp** in milliseconds and the **song duration** in percent. The percentage may be switched to "intro" or "outro" if there is storyboarding before or after the music.

On the **bottom-centre**, it shows the **timeline with markings** and the **compulsory music player buttons**. The `Test` button to the right of the timeline will save the beatmap and then allows for playtesting it, starting at the current timestamp.

> On the **bottom-right**, the **playback rate** can be adjusted by the value of a quarter.

Reviewer: all bold formatting is unnecessary

#### Colour markers

| Colour | Description |
| :-- | :-- |

> | White (long) | Current timestamp. |
> | Yellow (long tick) | Preview point. |
> | Yellow (up tick) | Start of the [drain time](/wiki/Beatmap/Drain_time). |
> | Green (up tick) | Inherited points. *See: [Timing tab](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timing)* |
> | Red (up tick) | Timing points. *See: [Timing tab](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timing)* |
> | Blue (down tick) | Bookmarks. |

Reviewer: "start of the drain time" isn't market on the bottom timeline -- my guess is that the author mistook a combination of red and green timing points as something special (it isn't)
```suggestion
| White | Current timestamp |
| Yellow  | Preview point |
| Green | [Inherited timing point](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timing#inherited-timing-point) |
| Red | [Uninherited timing point](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timing#uninherited-timing-point) |
| Blue | Bookmark |
```

> #### Colour highlights

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Colour sections
```

| Colour | Description |
| :-- | :-- |

> | Grey | [Break](/wiki/Beatmap/Break) time |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Grey | [Break](/wiki/Beatmap/Break) |
```

| Orange | [Kiai time](/wiki/Gameplay/Kiai_time) |

> #### Bookmarking command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Bookmark actions
```

| Shortcut | Description |
| :-- | :-- |

> | `Ctrl` + `B` | Adds a bookmark at current location. |
> | `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `B` | Removes the bookmark at current location. |
> | `Ctrl` + `Right arrow` | Moves the current timestamp to the next bookmark. |
> | `Ctrl` + `Left arrow` | Moves the current timestamp to the previous bookmark. |

Reviewer: thank god the tool has some leniency
```suggestion
| `Ctrl` + `B` | Add a bookmark at current location. |
| `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `B` | Remove the bookmark at nearby location. |
| `Ctrl` + `Right arrow` | Move the current timestamp to the next bookmark. |
| `Ctrl` + `Left arrow` | Move the current timestamp to the previous bookmark. |
```

## Features (osu!mania)

> For a simple guide, see: [Basics](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/118868) and [Mapping & Keysound](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/139139)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*See also: [Basics of the osu!mania mapping](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/118868), [osu!mania keysounding](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/139139)*
```

| :-- | :-- |
| Blue | Selected note(s) |
| White/Pink/Yellow | Unselected note colours |

### Centre-right (Hitsounds & Assist tools)

![](img/subtools.jpg "List of available subtools")

| Button (Keyboard shortcut) | Usage | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| New Combo (`Q`) | `Right click`: Change current note to next combo colour. | Note combo. This is equivalent to a verse in song script. An acceptable range is about 5-20. |

#### Hitsounds

| Button (Keyboard shortcut) | Usage | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| Whistle (`W`) | **(Select a note)** `Left click`: Use whistle sound on this note. | Add a whistle sound addition to the selection. |
| Finish (`E`) | **(Select a note)** `Left click`: Use finish sound on this note. | Add a finish (cymbal) sound addition to the selection. |
| Clap (`R`) | **(Select a note)** `Left click`: Use clap sound on this note. | Add a clap sound addition to the selection. |

#### Assist tools

| Button (Keyboard shortcut) | Usage | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `Grid Snap` (`T`) | **Hold** `Shift`: Temporary toggle. **Hold** `Ctrl`: Temporary disable angle snapping. | Notes will be snapped to the grid by default. |

> | `Distance Snap` (`Y`) | **Hold** `Alt`: Temporary toggle. Switch Beat Snap Divisor to Distance Snap. `Alt` **+** `Mousewheel`: Adjust Distance Snap multiplier. | Distance between consecutive notes will be snapped based on their rhythmical difference. Best use while the timeline is paused. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Distance Snap` (`Y`) | **Hold** `Alt`: Temporary toggle. Switch Beat Snap Divisor to Distance Snap. `Alt` **+** `Mousewheel`: Adjust Distance Snap multiplier. | Distance between consecutive notes will be snapped based on their rhythmical difference. Best to use while the timeline is paused. |
```

| `Lock Notes` (`L`) | **(Select a note)** `Left click`: Lock this note. | Lock selected note to current position and timestamp. |

### Bottom (Song's timeline)

![](img/song-timeline.jpg "Song's timeline")

> At **bottom-left**, it shows the **timestamp** in milliseconds and the **song duration** in percent. The percentage may be switched to "intro" or "outro" if there is storyboarding before or after the music.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the **bottom-left**, it shows the **timestamp** in milliseconds and the **song duration** in percent. The percentage may be switched to "intro" or "outro" if there is storyboarding before or after the music.
```

> At **bottom-centre**, it shows the **timeline with markings** and the **compulsory music player buttons**. The `Test` button to the right of the timeline will save your beatmap then allows you to play test it, starting at the current timestamp.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the **bottom-centre**, it shows the **timeline with markings** and the **compulsory music player buttons**. The `Test` button to the right of the timeline will save the beatmap and then allows for playtesting it, starting at the current timestamp.
```

> At **bottom-right**, you can adjust the **playback rate** by per quarter value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the **bottom-right**, the **playback rate** can be adjusted by the value of a quarter.
```

#### Bookmarking command

| Shortcut | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| `Ctrl` + `B` | Adds a bookmark at current location. |
| `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `B` | Removes the bookmark at current location. |
| `Ctrl` + `Right arrow` | Moves the current timestamp to the next bookmark. |
| `Ctrl` + `Left arrow` | Moves the current timestamp to the previous bookmark. |

### Sampling

> ![](img/sample-import.jpg "Sample pop-up window")

Reviewer 3: It's probably better to slice this image and move the `Sample events list` window part down to its corresponding chapter.

> **Sampling** is the process of adding sound to the note. To begin, select the note and `Alt` **+** `Left click` on the selected note and a pop-up window will be shown with sound samples inside your beatmap folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Sampling** is the process of adding sound to the note. To begin, select the note and `Alt` **+** `Left click` on the selected note and a pop-up window will be shown with sound samples inside the beatmap folder.
```

#### Sample import

> **Left-section** is the list of sound files you have in the beatmap's folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Left-section** is the list of sound files there are in the beatmap's folder.
```

**Right-section** are settings for the selected sound file.

##### Basic

| Name | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| `CustomSet` | **Ignores** selected custom hitsound in this editor, and applies the **default** hitsound set and volume without using timing point. *Notice: `Use basic sample` must be enabled in order to use this to be able to work as it's intended.* |

> | `Volume` | How loud you want this sound file be. Use only integer values from 8 to 100. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Volume` | How loud this sound file should be. Use only integer values from 8 to 100. |
```

| `Use basic sample` | **Ignores** selected custom hitsound in this editor, and applies only the volume on selected notes. This means, no matter what the notes are about, this feature only changes the selected notes volume. |

##### Buttons

| Name | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| `Play` | Plays the selected sound file. |
| `Import` | Imports the custom sound file from a subfolder inside the beatmap's folder. |
| `Delete` | Deletes the custom sound file. |
| `Apply` | Applies this selected custom sound file to this note. |
| `Sample` | Puts this selected custom sound file to the storyboard with respect to current timestamp. |
| `Sample list` | Storyboarded sound files. *Refer to [Sample event list](#sample-event-list) below* |
| `Reset` | Removes the sound file associated with the note. |
| `Cancel` | Closes the window. |

#### Sample event list

> Click on `Sample list` will summon another window named `Sample event list`, which would be this. These storyboarded elements will go to the `.osu` file of the selected difficulty.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clicking on `Sample list` will summon another window named `Sample event list`. The storyboard elements listed there will be stored in the `.osu` file of the selected difficulty.
```

> The coding is `MM:SS:XXX {Sound_file}@{Volume}`, where `MM:SS:XXX` is `Minutes:Seconds:Milliseconds` respectively. **Example**: `1:57:745 kick.wav@100%` means at 1min 57s 745ms, trigger the `kick.wav` file at 100% volume regardless of condition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The coding is `MM:SS:XXX {Sound_file}@{Volume}`, where `MM:SS:XXX` is `Minutes:Seconds:Milliseconds` respectively. **Example**: `1:57:745 kick.wav@100%` means at 1min 57s 745ms, triggering the `kick.wav` file at 100% volume regardless of condition.
```
